11 Best Simple Cake Recipes | 11 Top Easy Cake RecipesBest simple cake recipes: Find here list of 11 best simple cake recipes like chocolate mug cake, chocolate lava cake, banana and jam cake, marble cake & many more with key ingredients and how to make process.Sparshita Saxena, NDTVUpdated: September 26, 2019 17:13 IST
1
11 Best Simple Cake Recipes | 11 Top Easy Cake Recipes
Easy cake recipes to try at home.
Cake recipes:Who doesn't want to treat themselves with a bite of sinful sweet delight after a long day of appointments, meeting, assignments and commotion. While the thought of calories rightly restrict us from indulging too deep in the thought, a sweet escape one in a while doesn't harm anyone. Does it? Most of us love to cook, but the paucity of time or the fear of getting a recipe wrong keeps us within a bubble of reluctance. When it comes to desserts and baking, most of the amateur cooks steer clear of trying their hands at whipping up exquisite cheesecakes et al. But, as they say, if you want to master the art, do not rush, rather focus on the very basics and start simple. Only when you master the basics will you be able to get your confidence to pull off complex recipes.(Also Read: 11 Best Baking Recipes)To get you started, we present some of the most basic cake recipes that are not only a cakewalk to prepare but are all-time favourites too. But before you tuck yourself in an apron and get ready to bake, here are a few essential tips that every beginner should keep in mind -According to Mary Berry, an English food author and television presenter popularly associated with The Great British Bake Off, following things should be like your own personal baking bible:1.  The right proportion and measurement of ingredients.2.  Be watchful while using baking powder3. “A high fat content is essential in the butter or margarine you choose to use. I always aim at over 75%,” states Mary Berry in an interview.
Apart from these, following points will also help a great deal in assisting you in your baking endeavours | Tips and Tricks for the perfect cake:1.  Consistency of butter is of the utmost importance. Make sure the butter is at room temperature.2.  Do not fret at the last moment. Have your ingredients ready and handy.3.  Precision is the key. From weighing your ingredients and strictly following the recipe word-by-word to sticking to the given baking time.4.  Mix your ingredients well allowing the mixture to get some air.5.  Do not guess the temperature; get an oven thermometer if need be.6. Avoid using eggs straight from the refrigerator, all ingredients should be at room temperature.7.  Butter the pan properly, use a pastry brush.8.  Insert a toothpick into the cake to see if the cake is cooked properly.9.  Last but not the least; let your cake cool properly.(Also Read: 11 Birthday Cake Recipes​)Here are our 11 best simple cake recipes that you'd love to prepare at home:1. Flourless Chocolate CakeThis is a simple cake that can be put together with just five ingredients, in less than half an hour. This does not even require any flour!
 
chocolate cakeBest simple cake recipes: Easy, quick and flourless chocolate cake. What else do we need?(Also Read: How to Bake the Perfect Flourless Chocolate Cake​)
 
2. Butterless Sponge CakeSponge cakes are some of the easiest and most fuss-free cakes to prepare. Get the batter right and you can't go wrong.